
In this section, we'll explain what CSRF tokens are, how they protect against CSRF attacks, and how you can potentially bypass these defenses.

## What is a CSRF token?

A CSRF token is a unique, secret, and unpredictable value that is generated by the server-side application and shared with the client. When issuing a request to perform a sensitive action, such as submitting a form, the client must include the correct CSRF token. Otherwise, the server will refuse to perform the requested action.

A common way to share CSRF tokens with the client is to include them as a hidden parameter in an HTML form, for example:

`<form name="change-email-form" action="/my-account/change-email" method="POST"> <label>Email</label> <input required type="email" name="email" value="example@normal-website.com"> <input required type="hidden" name="csrf" value="50FaWgdOhi9M9wyna8taR1k3ODOR8d6u"> <button class='button' type='submit'> Update email </button> </form>`

Submitting this form results in the following request:

`POST /my-account/change-email HTTP/1.1 Host: normal-website.com Content-Length: 70 Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded csrf=50FaWgdOhi9M9wyna8taR1k3ODOR8d6u&email=example@normal-website.com`

When implemented correctly, CSRF tokens help protect against CSRF attacks by making it difficult for an attacker to construct a valid request on behalf of the victim. As the attacker has no way of predicting the correct value for the CSRF token, they won't be able to include it in the malicious request.

#### Note

CSRF tokens don't have to be sent as hidden parameters in a `POST` request. Some applications place CSRF tokens in HTTP headers, for example. The way in which tokens are transmitted has a significant impact on the security of a mechanism as a whole. For more information, see [How to prevent CSRF vulnerabilities](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf/preventing).

## Common flaws in CSRF token validation

CSRF vulnerabilities typically arise due to flawed validation of CSRF tokens. In this section, we'll cover some of the most common issues that enable attackers to bypass these defenses.

### Validation of CSRF token depends on request method

Some applications correctly validate the token when the request uses the POST method but skip the validation when the GET method is used.

In this situation, the attacker can switch to the GET method to bypass the validation and deliver a [CSRF attack](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf):

`GET /email/change?email=pwned@evil-user.net HTTP/1.1 Host: vulnerable-website.com Cookie: session=2yQIDcpia41WrATfjPqvm9tOkDvkMvLm`

[[CSRF where token validation depends on request method]]

### Validation of CSRF token depends on token being present

Some applications correctly validate the token when it is present but skip the validation if the token is omitted.

In this situation, the attacker can remove the entire parameter containing the token (not just its value) to bypass the validation and deliver a [CSRF attack](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf):

`POST /email/change HTTP/1.1 Host: vulnerable-website.com Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded Content-Length: 25 Cookie: session=2yQIDcpia41WrATfjPqvm9tOkDvkMvLm email=pwned@evil-user.net`

[[CSRF where token validation depends on token being present]]

### CSRF token is not tied to the user session

Some applications do not validate that the token belongs to the same session as the user who is making the request. Instead, the application maintains a global pool of tokens that it has issued and accepts any token that appears in this pool.

In this situation, the attacker can log in to the application using their own account, obtain a valid token, and then feed that token to the victim user in their CSRF attack.

